*** STARTT A LITTLE PRETTY 
POCKET-BOOK, &c. 

THE grand Design in the Nurture of Children, is to make them 
Strong, Hardy, Healthy, Virtuous, Wise, and Happy ; and these good 
Purposes are not to be obtained without some Care and 
Management in their Infanacy. Would you have your Child Strong, 
take Care of your Nurse, let her be a prudent Woman, one that will 
give him what Meat and Drink is necessary, and such only as affords 
a good Nutriment, not salt Meat, rich tarts, Sauces, Wine, &c. a 
Practice too common amongst some indulgent People. She must also 
let the Child have due Exercise ; for it is this that gives Life and 
Spirits, circulates the Blood, strengthens the Sinews, and keeps the 
whole Machinery in Order. 
Would you have a Hardy Child, give him common Diet only, clothe 
him thin, let him have good Exercise, and be as much exposed to 
Hardships as his natural Constitution will admit. The Face of a 
Child, when it comes into the world (says the great Mr. Locke) is as 
tender and susceptible of Injuries as any other part of the Body ; yet, 
by being always exposed, it becomes Proof against the severest 
Season and the most inclement Weather even at a Time when the 
Body (though wrapped in Flannels) is pierced with Cold. It is beside 
my Purpose to give a physical Reason for this ; nor indeed will the 
Brevity of my Design admit of it. It is a Fact suficiently known, what 
every Man must be sensible of, and therefore can need no 
Demonstration. 
Would you have a Healthy Son, observe the Directions already laid 
down with regard to Diet and Exercise, and keep him, as much as 
possible, from Physick ; for Physick is to the Body, as Arms to the 
State ; both are necessary, but neither to be used but in Cases of 
Emergency and Danger. 
Would you have a Virtuous Son, instill into him the Principles of 
Morality early, and encourage him in the Practice of those excellent 
Rules, by which whole Societies, States, Kingdoms, and Empires are 
knit together. Take heed what Company you intrust him with, and 
be always sure you set him good Example yourself. 
Would you have a Wise Son, teach him to reason early. Let him read, 
and make him understand what he reads. No Sentence should be 
passed over without a strict Examination of the Truth of it ; and 
though this may be thought hard at first, and seem to retard the Boy 
in his Progress, yet, a little Practice will make it familiar, and a 
Method of Reasoning will he acquired, which will be of Use to him 
all his Life after. Let him study Mankind ; shew him the Springs and 
Hinges on which they move ; teach him to draw Consequences from 
the Actions of others ; and if he should hesitate or mistake, you are to 
set him right : But then take Care to do it in such a Manner, as to 
forward his Enquiries, and pave this his grand Pursuit with Pleasure. 
Was this Method of Reasoning put more in Practice by Tutors, 
Parents, &c, we should not see so many dismal Objects in the World, 
for People would learn by the Misfortunes of others to avert their 
own. 
I doubt not but every Parent, every Father and Mother, would gladly 
contribute what they could towards the Happiness of their 
Children ; and yet it is surprising to see how blind they are, and how 
wide they mistake the Mark. What the indulgent Parent generally 
proposes for the Happiness of his Child, is a good Fortune to bear 
him up under the Calamities of Life ; but daily Experience tells us, 
this is insufficient. Happiness and Misery have their Source from the 
Passions : If in the Midst of the greatest Affluence, we are always 
repining, and think ourselves poor and miserable, we are so ; and the 
Beggar in the Straw, who is content, and thinks he has sufficient, is 
rich and happy. The whole Matter subsists in the Mind, and the 
Constitution : Subdue therefore your Children‘s Passions ; curb their 
Tempers, and make them subservient to the Rules of Reason. And 
this is not to be done by chiding, whipping, or severe Treatment, but 
by Reasoning and mild Discipline. Were I to see my Son too much 
ruffled and discomposed, I should take him aside, and point out to 
him the Evils that attend passionate Men ; tell him, that my Love for 
him would make me overlook many Faults, but that this was of so 
heinous a Nature, that I could not bear the Sight of him while he 
continued so wicked ; that he should not see his Mother, nor any of 
his Playmates, until he had susficiently repented of that Crime : 
Upon which, I would immediately order him (in a very calm 
Manner) to be shut up from any Company sor five or six Hours, and 
then, upon his Confession of the Fault, asking Pardon for his 
Offence, and promising Amendment for the future I would forgive 
him. This Method, regularly pursued, would soon break his Passion 
of Resentment, and subdue it to Reason. The next prudent Step to be 
taken, is to check his inordinate craving and desiring almost every 
Thing he sees ; and this, I think, might be as easily effected as the 
other; for, in the first Place, I would lay down this as a Maxim with 
him, that he should never have any Thing he cried for ; and 
therefore, if he was willing to obtain any Favour, he must come with 
some reasonable Request, and withdraw without the Appearance of 
any Uneasiness in Case of a Disappointment. 
Some over-fond People will think these are harsh Precepts. What, 
say they, are Children never to be obliged ? answer, Yes, I would 
have them obliged and pleased, but not humoured and spoiled. They 
should have what they asked for in a proper Manner ; but then they 
should wait my Time, without seeming over solicitous, or crying 
after it. I would make them exercise their Patience, that they might 
know the Use of it, when the Cares of the World came on. And 
therefore, I say again, Children should never have any Thing they 
cried for ; no, not on any Consideration whatsoever. 
Children, like tender Osiers, take the Bow, And as they first are fashion‘d, 
always grow. 
DRYDEN. 
‘Tis Education forms the tender Mind ; just as tke Twig is bent, the Tree‘s 
inclin‘d 
POPE. 
A 
LETTER 
FROM 
JACK THE GIANT-KILLER 
TO 
LITTLE MASTER TOMMY; 
My dear Tommy, 
YOUR Nurse called upon me To-day, and told me that you was a 
good Boy ; that you was dutiful to your Father and Mother, and that, 
when you have said your Prayers in the Morning and the Evening, 
you asked their Blessing, and in the Day-time did every Thing they 
bid you. She says, you are obedient to your Master, loving and kind 
to your Playfellows, obliging to every Body ; that you rise early in 
the Morning, keep yourself clean, and learn your Book; that when 
you have done a Fault you confess it, and are sorry for it. And, 
though you are sometimes naughty, she says you are very honest 
and good-humoured ; that you do not swear, tell Lies; nor say 
indecent Words, and are always thankful when any Body gives you 
good Advice ; that you never quarrel, nor do wicked Things, as some 
other Boys do. 
This Character, my Dear, has made every Body love you ; and, while 
you continue so good, you may depend on my obliging you with 
every Thing I can. I have here sent you a Little Pretty Pocket-Book, 
which will teach you to play at all those innocent Games that good 
Boys and Girls divert themselves with : And, while you behave so 
well, you shall never want Play, I assure you. But my dear Tommy, in 
order that you may be as good as possible, I have also sent you a 
Ball; the one Side of which is Red, the other Black, and with it ten 
Pins ; and I must insist upon making this Bargain, that your Nurse 
may hang up the Ball by the String to it, and for every good Action 
you do, a Pin shall be stuck on the Red Side, and for every bad Action 
a Pin shall be stuck on the Black Side. And when by doing good and 
pretty Things you have got all the ten Pins on the Red Side, then I will 
send you a Penny, and so I will as often as all the Pins shall be fairly 
got on that Side. But if ever the Pins be all found on the Black Side of 
the Ball, then I will send a Rod, and you shall be whipt, as often as 
they are found there. But this my Dear, I hope you will prevent by 
continuing a good Boy, that every Body may still love you, as well as 
Your Friend,  
JACK the GIANT-KILLER. 
P. S. When you are tired with playing, I have added, for your surther 
Amusement, a Collection of pretty Songs, which your Nurse will 
take Care to teach you ; and I must in-sist on your getting them 
perfectly, because the Knowledge of these Songs will recommend 
you to the Favour of all the Gentlemen and Ladies of America who 
sing in that Manner. 
A 
LETTER 
FROM 
JACK THE GIANT-KILLER 
TO 
PRETTY MISS POLLY; 
My dear Polly, 
Your Nurse called upon me Today, and told me that you was a good 
Girl ; that you was dutiful to your Father and Mother, and that, 
when you have said your Prayers in the Morning and the Evening, 
you asked their Blessing, and in the Daytime did every Thing they 
bid you. She says, you are obedient to your Mistress, loving and kind 
to your Playfellows, and obliging to every Body ; that you rise early 
in the Morning, keep yourself clean, and learn your Book ; that when 
you have done a Fault you confess it, and are sorry for it. And 
though you are sometimes naughty, she says you are very honest 
and good-humoured ; that you do not tell Lies, nor say indecent 
Words and are always thankful when any Body gives you good 
Advice ; that you never quarrel, nor do wicked Things, as some other 
Girls do. 
This Character, my Dear, has made every Body love you ; and, while 
you continue so good, you may depend on my obliging you with 
every Thing I can. I have here sent you a Little Pretty Pocket-Book, 
which will teach you to play at all those innocent Games that good 
Boys and Girls divert themselves with : And, while you behave so 
well, you shall never want Play, I assure you. But my dear Polly, in 
order that you may be as good as possible, I have also sent you a 
Pincushion; the one Side of which is Red, the other Black, and with it 
ten Pins ; and I must insist upon making this Bargain, that your 
Nurse may hang up the Pincushion by the String to it, and for every 
good Action you do, a Pin shall be stuck on the Red Side, and for 
every bad Action a Pin shall be stuck on the Black Side. And when by 
doing good and pretty Things you have got all the ten Pins on the 
Red Side, then I will send you a Penny, and so I will as often as all the 
Pins shall be fairly got on that Side. But if ever the Pins be all found 
on the Black Side of the Pincushion, then I will send a Rod, and you 
shall be whipt, as often as they are found there. But this my Dear, I 
hope you will prevent by continuing a good Girl, that every Body 
may still love you, as well as 
Your Friend,  
JACK the GIANT-KILLER. 
P. S. When you are tired with playing, I have added, for your surther 
Amusement, a Collection of pretty Songs, which your Nurse will 
take Care to teach you ; and I must in-sist on your getting them 
perfectly, because the Knowledge of these Songs will recommend 
you to the Favour of all the Gentlemen and Ladies of America who 
sing in that Manner. 
ADVERTISEMENT. 
A worthy and learned Gentleman, whose Presence I am at this Time 
honoured with, intimates, that it would not be amiss For some 
Gentlemen to keep a Ball contrived in this Manner, and some Ladies 
a Pincushion, by Way of Diary, especially if they are often apt to 
forget themselves. 
 
 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great A Play. 
CHUCK-FARTHING. 
AS you value your Pence, 
 At the Hole take your Aim; 
Chuck all safely in, 
 And you‘ll win the Game. 
MORAL. 
Chuck-Farthing, like Trade, 
 Requires great Care; 
The more you observe, 
 The better you‘ll fare. 
1 
 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little a Play. 
Flying the KITE. 
UPHELD in Air, the gaudy Kite, 
 High as an Eagle takes her Flight ; 
But if the Winds their Breath refrain, 
 She tumbles headlong down again. 
RULE of LIFE. 
Soon as thou seest the Dawn of Day, 
To God thy Adoration pay. 
2 
 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great B Play. 
Dancing round the MAY-POLE. 
WITH Garlands here the May-Pole crown‘d, 
 And all the Swains a dancing round, 
Compose a num‘rous jovial Ring, 
 To welcome in the cheerful Spring. 
RULE of LIFE. 
Leave God to manage, and to grant 
That which his Wisdom sees thee want. 
3 
 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little b Play. 
MARBLES. 
KNUCKLE down to your Taw, 
 Aim well, shoot away : 
Keep out of the Ring, 
 And you‘ll soon learn to play. 
MORAL. 
Time rolls like a Marble, 
 And awes ev‘ry State : 
Then improve each Moment, 
 Before ‘tis too late. 
4 
 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great C Play. 
HOOP and HIDE. 
GO hide out, and hoop, 
 Whilst I go to sleep : 
If you I can‘t find, 
 My Post I must keep. 
MORAL. 
With Carefulness watch 
 Each Moment that flies, 
To keep Peace at Home, 
 And ward off Surprize. 
5 
 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little c Play. 
THREAD the NEEDLE. 
HERE Hand in Hand the Boys unite, 
 And form a very pleasing Sight ; 
Then thro‘ each other‘s Arms they fly, 
 As Thread does thro‘ the Needle‘s Eye. 
RULE of LIFE. 
Talk not too much ; sit down content, 
That your Discourse be pertinent. 
6 
 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great D Play. 
FISHING. 
THE artful Angler baits his Hook, 
 And throws it gently in the Brook ; 
Which the Fish view with greedy Eyes, 
 And soon are taken by Surprize. 
RULE of LIFE. 
Learn well the Motions of the Mind ; 
Why you are made, for what design‘d. 
7 
 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little d Play. 
BLINDMAN‘S BUFF. 
BEREFIT of all Light, 
 I stumble along ; 
But, if I catch, you, 
 My Doom is your own. 
MORAL. 
How blind is that Man, 
 Who scorns the Advice 
Of Friends, who intend 
 To make him more wise. 
8 
 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great E Play. 
SHUTTLE-COCK. 
THE Shuttte-Cock struck 
 Does backward rebound ; 
But, if it be miss‘d, 
 It falls to the Ground. 
MORAL. 
Thus chequer‘d in Life, 
 As Fortune does flow ; 
Her Smiles lift us high, 
 Her Frowns sink us low. 
9 
 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little e Play. 
KING I AM. 
AMBITION here fires every Heart, 
 And all assume the Monarch‘s Part, 
For a few Minutes, though in Pray, 
 Each rules with arbitrary Sway. 
RULE of LIFE. 
Descend into thyself, to find 
The Imperfections of thy Mind. 
10 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great F Play. 
PEG-FARTHING. 
SOON as the Ring is once compos‘d, 
 The Coin is in the Centre clos‘d ; 
And then the wish‘d-for Prize to win, 
 The Top that drives it out must spin. 
RULE of LIFE. 
Be silent if you doubt your Sense, 
And always speak with Diffidence. 
11 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little f Play. 
KNOCK OUT and SPAN. 
STRIKE out your Man strong ; 
 For the very next one 
Will bear off the Prize, 
 If you come to a Span. 
MORAL. 
This Span, my dear Boy, 
 Shou‘d your Monitor be ; 
‘Tis the Length of a Life, 
 As we oftentimes see. 
12 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great G Play. 
HOP, STEP, and JUMP. 
HOP short and Step safe, 
 To make your Jump long ; 
This Art oft has beat 
 Th‘ Efforts of the strong. 
MORAL. 
This old Maxim take, 
 T‘ embellish your Book : 
Think well ere you talk, 
 And, ere you leap, look. 
13 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little g Play. 
BOYS and GIRLS come out to Play. 
AFTER a sultry Summer‘s Day, 
 When the Moon shines, and Stars are gay ; 
The Nymphs and Swains well pleas‘d advance, 
 And spend the Ev‘ning in a Dance. 
RULE of LIFE. 
Reflect To-day upon the Last, 
And freely own thy Errours past. 
14 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great H Play. 
I sent a LETTER to my LOVE. 
THE Lads and Lasses here are seen, 
 All gaily tripping o‘er the Green ; 
But one among them to her‘ Cost, 
 The Treasure of her Heart has lost. 
RULE of LIFE. 
If prosperous, of Pride beware : 
Changes of Fortune frequent are. 
15 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little h Play. 
PITCH and HUSSEL. 
POISE your Hand fairly, 
 And pitch plum your Slat ; 
Then shake for all Heads, 
And turn down the Hat. 
MORAL. 
How fickle‘s this Game ! 
 So Fortune or Fate 
Decrees our Repentance, 
 When oft ‘tis too late. 
16 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great I Play. 
CRICKET. 
THIS Lesson observe, 
 When you play at Cricket, 
Catch All fairly out, 
 Or bowl down the Wicket. 
MORAL. 
This Maxim regard, 
 Now you‘re in your Prime ; 
Look ere ‘tis too late ; 
 By the Forelock take Time. 
17 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little i Play. 
STOOL-BALL. 
THE Ball once struck with Art and Care, 
 And drove impetuous through the Air 
Swift round his Course the Gamester flies, 
 Or his Stool‘s taken by Surprize. 
RULE of LIFE. 
Bestow your Alms whene‘er you see 
An Object in Necessity. 
18 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great K Play. 
SWIMMING. 
WHEN the Sun‘s Beams have warm‘d the Air, 
 Our Youth to some cool Brook repair ; 
In whose refreshing Streams they play, 
 To the last Remnant of the Day. 
RULE of LIFE. 
Think ere you speak ; for Words once flown, 
Once utter‘d, are no more your own. 
19 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little k Play. 
BASE-BALL. 
THE Ball once struck off, 
 Away flies the Boy 
To the next destin‘d Post, 
 And then Home with Joy, 
MORAL. 
Thus Seamen; for Lucre 
 Fly over the Main, 
But, with Pleasure transported 
 Return back again. 
20 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great L Play. 
TRAP-BALL. 
TOUCH lightly the Trap, 
 And strike low the Ball ; 
Let none catch you out, 
 And you‘ll beat them all. 
MORAL. 
Learn hence, my dear Boy, 
 To avoid ev‘ry Snare, 
Contriv‘d to involve you 
 In Sorrow and Care. 
21 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little l Play.  
TIP-CAT. 
THE Gamester here his Art displays, 
 And drives the Cat a thousand Ways, 
For should he miss, when once ‘tis toss‘d 
 He‘s out—and all his Sport is lost. 
RULE of LIFE. 
Debates and Quarrels always shun ; 
No one by Peace was e‘er undone. 
22 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great M Play.  
FIVES. 
WITH what great Force the little Ball 
 Rebounds, when struck against the Wall ; 
See how intent each Gamester Rands ; 
 Mark well his Eyes, his Feet, his Hands ! 
RULE of LIFE. 
Know this (which is enough to know), 
Virtue is Happiness below. 
23 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little m Play.  
LEAP-FROG. 
THIS stoops down his Head, 
 Whilst that springs up High ; 
But then you will find, 
 He‘ll stoop by and by. 
MORAL. 
Just so ‘tis at Court ; 
 To-day you‘re in Place ; 
To-morrow perhaps, 
 You‘re quite in Disgrace. 
24 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great N Play.  
BIRDS-NESTING. 
HERE two naughty Boys, 
 Hard-hearted in Jest, 
Deprive a poor Bird 
 Of her young and her Nest. 
MORAL. 
Thus Men, out of Joke, 
 (Be‘t spoke to their Shame) 
Too often make free 
 With another‘s good Name. 
25 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little n Play.  
TRAIN-BANDING. 
THE Serjeant Hero here appears, 
 Strutting before his Grenadiers ; 
And leads his mighty valiant Men, 
 First up the Hill, then down again. 
RULE of LIFE. 
Judge not between two Friends, but see 
If you can bring them to agree. 
26 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great O Play.  
All the BIRDS in the AIR. 
HERE various Boys stand round, and soon, 
 Each does some favourite Bird assume ; 
And if the Slaye once hits his Name, 
 He‘s then made free and crowns the Game. 
RULE of LIFE. 
Live well, and then die soon or late, 
For ever happy is your State. 
27 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little o Play.  
HOP-HAT. 
O‘ER this Hat, and that, 
 Boys hop to the last ; 
Which once in their Mouths, 
 Behind them is cast. 
MORAL. 
Thus Men often struggle, 
 Some Bliss to obtain ; 
Which, once in their Pow‘r, 
 They treat with Disdain. 
28 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great P Play.  
SHOOTING. 
THO‘ some Birds, too heedless, 
 Dread no Danger nigh ; 
Yet still by the Fowlers 
 They instantly die. 
MORAL. 
From hence we may learn 
 That, by one thoughtless 
Trip Strange Accidents happen 
 ‘Twixt the Cup and the Lip. 
29 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little p Play.  
HOP-SCOTCH. 
FIRST make with Chalk an oblong Square, 
 With wide Partitions here and there; 
Then to the first a Tile convey ; 
 Hop in—then kick the Tile away, 
RULE of LIFE. 
Strive with good Sense to stock your Mind, 
And to that Sense be Virtue join‘d. 
30 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great Q Play.  
Who will play at my SQUARES? 
THIS well-invented Game‘s design‘d 
 To strike the Eye and form the Mind ; 
And he most doubtless aims aright, 
 Who joins Instruction with Delight. 
RULE of LIFE. 
So live with Men, as if God‘s Eye 
Did into every Action pry. 
31 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little q Play.  
RIDING. 
IN Quest of his Game, 
 The Sportsman rides on, 
But falls off his Horse 
 Before he has done. 
MORAL. 
Thus Youth without Thought, 
 Their Amours pursue, 
Though an Age of Pain 
 Does often accrue. 
32 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great R. 
GREAT A, B, and C, 
 And tumble down D, 
The Cat‘s a blind buff, 
 And she cannot fee. 
a, b, c, d. 
33 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little r. 
GREAT E, F, and G, 
 Come here follow me, 
And we will jump over 
 The Rosemary Tree. 
e, f, g. 
34 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great S. 
HERE‘S great H, and I 
 With the Christmas Pye ; 
Who will eat the Plumbs out ? 
 J, H, and I. 
h, i. 
35 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little s. 
HERE‘S great K, and L, 
 Pray Dame can you tell, 
Who put the Pig-Hog 
 Down into the Well ? 
k, l. 
36 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great T. 
HERE‘S great M, and N, 
 Are come back again, 
To bring the good Boy 
 A fine Golden Pen. 
m, n, 
37 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little t. 
SO great O, and P, 
 Pray what do you see ? 
A naughty boy whipt ; 
 But that is not me. 
o, p. 
38 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great U. 
HERE‘S great Q, and R, 
 Are both come from far, 
To bring you good news 
 About the late War. 
q, r, 
39 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little u. 
SO S, T, and U, 
 Pray how do you do ? 
We thank you—the better 
For seeing of you. 
s, t, u, 
40 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great W. 
HERE‘S great W, X, 
 Good Friends do not vex, 
All things will go well 
 Dear W, and X. 
w, x 
41 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little w. 
THERE‘S great Y, and Z, 
 On a Horse that is mad : 
If you fall down, 
 Farewel Poor great Y and Z. 
y, z. 
42 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great X.  
FABLE I. 
The WOLF and the KID. 
AS the Goat went to brouze, 
 Thus her Charge did begin 
Be advis‘d, my dear Kid, 
 And let nobody in. 
The Wolf hearing this 
 For Admittance did try, 
But the Kid answer‘d, No 
 I‘ll not trust you, not I. 
43 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little x. 
To Master Tommy, or Miss Polly. 
YOU see, my Dear, the little Kid, by taking, her Parent‘s Advice, 
preserved her own Life; for had she been so wicked as to have 
neglected what the Goat (her Mother) said to her, and had opened 
the Door, the Wolf would certainly have torn her, to Pieces. Take 
Care therefore to do always as your Papa and Mamma, or your 
Master and Mistress shall direct you, and you will oblige, 
Your old Friend, 
JACK the Giant-Killer. 
44 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great Y.  
FABLE II. 
The HUSBANDMAN and the STORK. 
A STORK, thro‘ Misfortune, 
 Trepann‘d by a Crane, 
Was pleading his good Deeds, 
 But pleaded in vain. 
The Crane is a Villain, 
 The Farmer replies, 
And he that‘s his Comrade 
 Most certainly dies. 
45 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little y. 
To Master Tommy, or Miss Polly. 
YOU see, my Dear, the sad Effects of keeping bad Company ; if the 
poor harmless Strork had not been in Company with the wicked 
Crane, he might probably have lived until this Day ; therefore of all 
Things take Care what Sort of Children you play with, for those that 
are wicked will make you so too ; and nothing will more displease 
Your sincere Friend, 
JACK the Giant-Killer. 
46 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The great Z. 
FABLE III. 
The SHEPHERD‘S BOY. 
A WANTON young Shepherd, 
 Tho‘ no Danger near, 
Cries out to his Neighbours, 
 The Wolf, Sirs, is here. 
They come, and are laugh‘d at 
 Soon he roars out again, 
Now the Wolf‘s here indeed ! 
 But his Cries are in vain. 
47 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
The little z. 
To Master Tommy, or Miss Polly. 
THIS Boy‘s Fate, my Dear, is a remarkable Instance of the Folly and 
Wickedness of telling Lies ; if he had not deceived the People before, 
they would have believed him, and ran to his Assistance, by which 
Means both him and his Sheep might have been saved, which are 
now torn to Pieces : I hope you will remember this, my Dear, and 
resolve in yourself never to tell a Lie ; for if you do, I shall be very 
angry, 
I am, 
Your hearty Friend, 
JACK the Giant-Killer. 
48 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
FABLE IV. 
MERCURY and the WOODMAN. 
A WOODMAN, at Work, 
 Dropp‘d his Ax in a Pond, 
And in Sorrow and Tears, 
 His Disaster bemoan‘d. 
Merc‘ry brings one all Gold, 
 And cries, Friend, is this thine ? 
No Sir, (says the Woodman) 
Mine was not fo fine. 
Then he shew‘d him the right, 
Ah that‘s mine by my Troth: 
Thou art honest, says Merc‘ry, 
 So, Friend take them both. 
49 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
To Master Tommy, or Miss Polly. 
BY this you may see, my Dear, that Honesty is the best Policy ; had 
Mercury found the Woodman a Rogue, he would not have given him 
any Thing ; but as he was an honest Man, he not only gave him his 
own Ax, but a golden one also. Consider, my Dear, it is a fine Thing, 
to have a Golden Ax, and at the same Time the Love and Esteem of all 
the World besides, and that you will certainly have if you are strictly 
honest. 
I am, 
Your affectionate Friend, 
JACK the Giant-Killer. 
50 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
Letter to Sir 
SIR, 
THERE was in my Country a little Boy who learned his Book to that 
surprising Degree, that his Mager could scarce teach him fast 
enough, for he had his Lesson almost as soon as it was pointed out to 
him ; which raised the Attention of every Body : And as he was also 
very dutiful to his Parents and obliging to his Playmates, every Body 
loved him. His Learning and Behaviour purchased him the Esteem 
of the greatest People, and raised him from a mean State of Life to a 
Coach and Six, in which he rides to this Day. Learning is a most 
excellent Thing, and easy to be acquired too, when little Boys set 
themfesves earnestly about it. I know several Masters at this Time, 
who all bid fair for the same Honour the above Gentleman enjoys. 
I am, Sir, &c. 
51 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
Letter to Madam 
MADAM, 
I KNOW of a little Lady, no bigger than your pretty Miss, who has 
behaved so that every Body is in love with her. She is extremely 
dutiful to her Parents and Governess, kind to her School-fellows, and 
obliging to every Body. Then she learns her Book to Admiration, 
works well with her Needle, and is so modest, so willing to do as she 
is bid, and so engaging in Company, that my Lady Mean-well has 
made her a Present of a fine Gold Watch, and declares that she shall 
ride in her own Coach : It is this Learning, Madam, and good 
Behaviour, that brings us the Esteem of the whole World. 
I am, Madam, Yours, &c.. 
52 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
Prayers 
A little Boy and Girl at Prayers. 
ALL good Boys and Girls say their Prayers at Night, and in the 
Morning, which makes God Almighty love and bless them. 
53 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
Asking a Blessing 
A little Boy and Girl asking a Blessing of their Parents. 
ALL good Boys and Girls kneel down every Morning and Evening 
and ask their Parents Blessing in these Words, “Pray Papa and 
Mamma, pray to God to bless me, and make me his true and faithful 
Servant.“ Which makes their Friends love them. 
54 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
Reading 
A little Boy and Girl reading. 
ALL good Boys and Girls take Care to learn their Lessons, and read 
in a pretty Manner ; which makes every Body admire them. 
55 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
Charity 
A little Boy and Girl bestowing their Charity. 
ALL good Boys and Girls, when they see a poor Man, or Woman, or 
a Child in Want, will give them either Money or such Meat and 
Drink as they have to spare ; which makes the whole World love 
them. 
56 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
A 
POETICAL DESCRIPTION 
OF THE 
FOUR SEASONS 
I. SPRING 
THE Bloom of Youth upon his Cheek is seen, 
And where he treads fresh Flowers deck the Green ; 
His fragrant Breath perfumes the Ev‘ning Skies, 
And turn‘d to him the Sylvan Strains a rise ; 
A pointed Jav‘lin in his Hand he bears, 
And on his Head a golden Helmet wears. 
For then begins the stern Bellona‘s Rage, 
And hostile Realms in Bloody Wars engage : 
His calm Approach revives the peaceful Plain, 
But leads on Death where Discord holds its Reign. 
57 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
II. SUMMER 
IN silken Garb array‘d of cheerful Green, 
Was sportive Summer next advancing seen ; 
A gilded Quiver at his Shoulder hung, 
And in his Hand he trail‘d a Bow unbent along. 
His tawny Brow with faded Flow‘rs was crown‘d, 
And studded with thick Drops of Sweat around. 
As if fatigu‘d with the laborious Chace, 
Or faint with Heat in sultry Titan‘s Rays ; 
He moving slow, invok‘d, the friendly Air, 
And sought the cooling Streams to quench his burning there. 
58 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
III. AUTUMN 
AUTUMN succeeds, in flaming Yellow clad, 
With Fullness smiling and with Plenty glad. 
Laden with sunny Fruits of ev‘ry Kind, 
He dar‘d the Cold that waited close behind. 
A Wreath of ripen‘d Corn his Temples bound, 
Enrich‘d with Leaves and clust‘ring Grapes around. 
An Harvest Crook employ‘d his better Hand, 
To reap the Grain and ease the burden‘d Land. 
59 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
IV. WINTER 
AWINTER was last in woolly Robes array‘d, 
And bent with feeble Age his hoary Head ; 
Shrunk in himself he wrapt his Garments close, 
And inly trembled as the Tempest rose. 
His Length of Beard and deep intended Brow, 
Were whiten‘d o‘er with an eternal Snow. 
Prone to the Earth his bending Back declin‘d, 
And, almost, froze, he shiver‘d in the Wind ; 
Propp‘d on a Staff, he slowly, mov‘d along ; 
And round him loud insuIting Boreas rung. 
60 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
TIME‘s ADDRESS 
TO 
PLUTUS and CUPID 
By Way of APPLICATION 
‘TIS I who measure vital Space, 
And deal out Years to human Race. 
Tho‘ little priz‘d and seldom sought, 
Without me Love and Gold are nought ; 
By me all useful Arts are gain‘d, 
Wealth, Learning, Wisdom is attain‘d; 
So subtle and so swift I fly, 
Loves not more fugitive than I. 
How heedless then are Mortals grown ; 
How little is their Int‘rest known ; 
In ev‘ry View they ought to mind me ; 
For when once lost they never find me. 
61 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
SELECT 
PROVERBS 
For the USE of 
CHILDREN. 
A FOOL‘s Bolt is soon shot. 
A good Beginning, a good Ending. 
A Fool and his Money are soon parted. 
After Dinner sit a while, 
Aster Supper walk a Mile. 
After a Storm cometh a Calm. 
As good sit still, as rise up and fall. 
A hasty Man never wants Woe. 
Birds of a Feather will flock together. 
The burnt Child dreads the Fire. 
Better the End of a Feast than the Beginning of a Fray. 
Enough‘s as good as a Feast. 
Fine Feathers make fine Birds. 
First come, first serv‘d. 
Faint Heart never won fair Lady. 
Fair and softly goes far. 
Fast bind, fast find. 
Good Wine needs no Bush. 
Hunger is the best Sauce. 
If a Man deceive me once, ‘tis his fault; If twice, it is my own. 
It‘s a good Horse that never stumbles. 
It‘s a good Wife that never grumbles. 
Make Hay while the Sun shines. 
Nothing‘s so certain as Death. 
62 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
Necessity has no Law. 
New Lords, new Law. 
None so proud as an enriched Beggar. 
Pride will have a Fall. 
Proffered Service stinks. 
Set a Knave to catch a Knave. 
Two Heads are better than one. 
Too much Familiarity breeds Contempt. 
They who are bound must obey. 
Time and Tide stay for no Man. 
Tell the Truth and Shame the Devil. 
The best may mend. 
Truth may be blam‘d, but can‘t be sham‘d. 
The new Broom sweeps clean. 
The Eye is bigger than the Belly. 
The weakest goes to the Wall. 
When the Fox preaches beware of the Geese. 
Wisdom is better than Riches. 
Try your Friend before you trust him. 
Look not a gift Horse in the Mouth. 
A Bird in the Hand is worth two in the Bush. 
63 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
RULES 
FOR 
BEHAVIOUR 
IN 
CHILDREN. 
• Chapter I. Mixt Precepts 
• Chapter II. Containing One Hundred and Sixty three Rules  
for Children‘s Behavior 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
At the Meeting House 
At Home 
At the Table 
In Company 
In Discourse 
At the School 
When Abroad 
Among other Children  
64 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
CHAP. I. 
MIXT PRECEPTS 
FEAR GOD and believe in CHRIST. 
2 Honour the Magistrates. 
3 Reverence thy Parents. 
4 Submit to thy Superiours. 
5 Despise not thy Inferiours. 
6 Be courteous with thy Equals. 
7 Pray daily and devoutly. 
8 Converse with the Good. 
9 Imitate not the Wicked. 
10 Hearken, diligently to Instruction. 
11 Be very desirous of Leaning. 
12 Love the School. 
13 Be always neat and cleanly 
14 Study Virtue and embrace it. 
15 Provoke no Body. 
16 Love thy School Fellows. 
17 Please thy Master. 
18 Let not Play entice thee. 
19 Restrain thy Tongue. 
20 Covet future Honour, Which only Virtue and Wisdom can 
procure. 
65 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
CHAP. II. 
Containing One Hundred and Sixty three Rules for the Behaviour of 
Children, vis. 
At the MEETING HOUSE. 
At HOME. 
At the TABLE. 
In COMPANY. 
In DISCOURSE. 
At the SCHOOL. 
When ABROAD ; and 
When among OTHER CHILDREN. 
66 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
CHILDREN‘S BEHAVIOR at the MEETING HOUSE. 
DECENTLY walk to thy Seat or Pew ; run not, nor go wantonly. 
2 Sit where thou art ordered by thy Superiours, Parents or Masters. 
3 Shift not Seats, but continue in the Place where your Superiours 
order you. 
4 Lend thy Place for the easing of any one that stands near thee. 
5 Keep not a Seat too long that is lent thee by another, but being 
eased thyself, restore it to him that lent it to thee. 
6 Task not in the Meeting House especially in the Time of Prayer or 
Preaching. 
7 Fix thine Eye on the Minister, let it not wildly wander to gaze on 
any Person or Thing, 
67 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
8 Attend diligently to the Words of the Minister : Pray with him 
when he prayeth, at least in thy Heart ; and while he preacheth, 
listen, that thou mayest remember. 
9 Be not hasty to run out of the Meeting House when the Worship is 
ended, as if thou wert weary of being there. 
10 Walk decently and soberly Home, without Haste or Wantonness ; 
thinking upon what you have been hearing. 
68 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
BEHAVIOR when at HOME. 
MAKE a Bow always when you come Home, and be instantly 
uncovered. 
2 Be never covered at Home, especially before thy Parents or 
Strangers. 
3 Never set inthe Presence of thy Parents without bidng, though no 
Stranger be present. 
4 If thou passest by thy Parents at any Place where thou seet them, 
either by themselves or with Company, bow towards them. 
5 If thou art going to speak to thy Parents, and see them engaged in 
Discourse with Company, draw back and leave thy Business until 
afterwards, but if thou must speak, be sure to whisper. 
6 Never speak to thy Parents without some Title of Respect, viz. Sir, 
Madam, &c. according to their Quality. 
7 Approach near thy Parents at no Time without a Bow. 
69 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
8 Dispute not, nor delay to obey the Commands of thy Parents. 
9 Go not out of Doors without thy Parents leave, and return within 
the Time by them limited. 
10 Come not into the Room where thy Parents are with Strangers, 
unless thou art called, and then decently ; and at bidding go out ; or 
if Strangers come in while thou art with them, it is Manners with a 
Bow to withdraw. 
11 Use respectful and courteous, but not insulting or domineering 
Carriage or Language towards the Servants. 
12 Quarrel not nor contend with thy Brethren or Sisters, but live in 
Love, Peace and Unity. 
13 Grumble not, nor be discontented at any Thing thy Parents 
appoint, speak or do. 
14 Bear with Meekness and Patience, and without Murmuring or 
Sullenness, thy Parents Reproofs or Corrections : Nay, though it 
should happen that they be causless, or undeserved. 
70 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
BEHAVIOR when at TABLE. 
COME not to the Table without having your Hands and Face 
washed, and your Head combed. 
2 Sit not down until thou art bidden by thy Parents or other 
Superiours. 
3 Be sure thou never sittest down until a Blessing be desired, and 
then in thy due Place. 
4 Offer not to carve for thyself, or to take any Thing, though it be that 
which thou dost greatly desire. 
5 Ask not for any Thing, but tarry until it be offered thee. 
6 Find no Fault with any Thing that is given thee. 
7 When thou hast Meat given thee, be not the first that begins to eat. 
8 Speak not at the Table ; if thy Superiours be discoursmg, meddle 
not with the Matter ; but be silent, except thou art spoken unto. 
71 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
9 If thou wantest any Thing from the Servants, call to them softly. 
10 Eat not too fast, or with greedy Behaviour. 
11 Eat not too much, but moderately. 12 Eat not so slow as to make 
others wait for thee. 
13 Make not a Noise with thy Tongue, Mouth, Lips or Breath, in 
eating or drinking. 
14 Stare not in the Face of any one, especially thy Superiours, at the 
Table. 
15 Grease not thy Fingers or Napkin more than Necessity requires. 
16 Bite not thy Bread, but break it ; but not with slovingly Fingers, 
nor with the same wherewith thou takest up thy Meat. 
17 Dip not thy Meat in the Sauce. 
18 Take not Salt with a greasy knife. 
19 Spit not, cough not, nor blow thy Nose at the Table, if it may be 
avoided ; but is there be necessity, do it aside, and without much 
Noise. 
20 Lean not thy Elbow on the Tablet or on the Back of thy Chair. 
21 Stuff not thy Mouth so as to fill thy Cheeks, be content with 
smaller Mouthfuls. 
22 Blow not thy Meat, but with Patience, wait until it be cool. 
23 Sup not Broth at the Table ; but eat it with a Spoon. 
24 Smell not of thy Meat, nor put it to thy Nose ; turn it not the other 
Side upward to view it upon thy Plate., 
72 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
25 Throw not any Thing under the Table. 
26 Hold not thy Knife upright in thy Hand, but sloping ; and lay it 
down at thy right Hand; with the Blade upon thy Plate. 
27 Spit not forth any Thing that is not convenient to be swallowed, as 
the Stones of Plumbs, Cherries, or such like ; but with thy left Hand, 
neatly move them to the Side of thy Plate. 
28 Fix not thine Eyes upon the Plate of another, or upon the Meat on 
the Table. 
29 Lift not up thine Eyes, nor roll them about while thou art 
drinking. 
30 Foul not the Napkin all over, but at one Corner only. 
31 Bend thy Body a little downwards to thy Plate, when thou movest 
any Thing that is sauced to thy Mouth. 
32 Look not earnestly on any one that is eating. 
33 Foul not the Tablecloth. 
34 Gnaw not Bones at the Table, but clean them with thy Knife, 
unless they be very small ones, and hold them not with a whole 
Hand, but with two. Fingers. 
35 Drink not nor speak with any Thing in thy Mouth. 
36 Put not a Bit into thy Mouth until the former be swallowed. 
37 Before and after thou drinkest, wipe thy Lips with thy Napkin. 
38 Pick not thy Teeth at the Table, unless holding up thy Napkin 
before thy Mouth with thine other Hand. 
73 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
39 Drink not until thou hast quite emptied thy Mouth, nor drink 
often. 
40 Frown not nor murmur if there be any Thing at the Table which 
thy Parents, or Strangers with them, eat of, while thou thyself hast 
none given thee. 
41 As soon as thou shalt be moderately satisfied ; or whensoever thy 
Parents think meet to bid thee, rise up from the Table, though others 
thy Superiours sit still. 
42 When thou risest from the Table, having made a Bow at the Side 
of the Table where thou sattest, withdraw. 
43 When Thanks are to be returned after eating, return to thy Place, 
and stand reverendly , until it be done ; then with a Bow withdraw 
out of the Room, leaving thy Superiours to themselves, unless thou 
art bidden to stay. 
74 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
BEHAVIOR when in COMPANY. 
ENTER not into the Company of thy Superiours without command 
or calling, nor without a Bow. 
2 Sit not down in Presence of Superiours without bidding. 
3 Put not thy Hand in the Presence of others to any Part of thy Body, 
not ordinarily discovered. 
4 Sing not nor hum in thy Mouth, while thou art in Company. 
5 Stand not wriggling with thy Body hither and thither, but steady, 
and upright. 
6 Play not wantonly like a Mimick, with thy Fingers or Feet. 
7 In coughing or sneezing, make as little Noise as possible. 
8 If thou canst not avoid Yawning, shut thy Mouth with thine Hand 
or Handkertchief before it, turning thy Face aside. 
75 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
9 When thou blowest thy Nose, let thy Handkerchief be used, and 
make not a Noise in so doing. 
10 Gnaw not thy Nails, pick them not, nor bite them with thy Teeth. 
11 Spit not in the Room, but in the Corner, and rub it with thy Foot, 
or rather go out and do it abroad. 
12 Lean not on the Chair of a Superiour standing behind him. 
13 Spit not upon the Fire, nor sit too wide with thy Knees at it. 
14 Sit not with thy Legs crossed, but keep them firm and settled and 
thy Feet even. 
15 Turn not thy Back to any, but place thyself so that none may be 
behind thee. 
16 Read not Books, Letters nor other Writings in Company, unless 
there be necessity, and thou askest leave. 
17 Touch not; nor look upon the Books or Writings of any one, unless 
the Owner invite or desire thee. 
18 Come not near when another reads a Letter or any other Paper. 
19 Let thy Countenance be moderately cheerful, neither laughing nor 
frowning. 
20 Langh not loud, but silently smile upon any Occasion. 
21 Stand not before Superiours with thine Hands in thy Pockets ; 
scratch not thy Head, wink not with thine Eyes, but modestly be 
looking strait before thee. 
22 Walking with thy Superiour in the House or Garden, give him the 
right, or Upper Hand, and Walk not even with him, Cheek by Jole ; 
76 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
but a little behind him, yet not so distant as that it shall be 
troublesome to him to speak to thee, or hard for thee to hear. 
23 Look not boldly or wishfully in the Face of thy Superiour. 
24 To look upon one in Company and immediately whisper to 
another, is unmannerly. 
25 Whisper not in Company. 
26 Be not among Equals forward and fretful, but gentle and affable. 
77 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
BEHAVIOR in their DISCOURSE. 
AMONG Superiours speak not until thou art spoken to, and bidden 
to speak. 
2 Hold not thine Hand, nor any Thing else before thy Mouth when 
thou speakest. 
3 Come not over near to the Person thou speakest to. 
4 If thy Superiour speak to thee while thou sittest, stand up before 
thou givest any answer. 
5 Sit not down until thy Superiour bid thee. 
6 Speak neither very loud : Nor too low. 
7 Speak clear, not stammering, stumbbling nor drawling. 
8 Answer not one that is speaking to thee until he hath done 
78 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
9 Loll not when thou art speaking to a Superiour, or spoken to by 
him, 
10 Speak not without Sir, or same other Title of Respect, which is due 
to him to whom thou speakest. 
11 Strive not with Superiours in Argument or Discourse ; but easily 
submit thine Opinion to their Assertions. 
12 If thy Superiour speak any Thing, wherein thou knowest he is 
mistaken, correct not nor contradict him, nor grin at the hearing of it 
but pass over the Errour without Notice or Interruption. 
13 Mention not frivolous or little Things among grave Perssns or 
Superiours. 
14 If thy Superiour drawl or hesitate in his Words, pretend not to 
help him out, or to prompt him. 
15 Come not too near two that are whispering or speaking in secret, 
much less mayest thou ask about what they confer. 
16 When thy Parent or Master speaks to any Person, speak not thou, 
nor hearken to them. 
17 If thy Superiours be relating a Story, say not, I have heard it 
before, but attend to it as if it were to thee altogether new : Seem not 
to question the Truth of it : If he tell it not right, snigger not, nor 
endeavour to help him out, or add to his Relation. 
18 If any immodest or obscene Thing be spoken in thy hearing, smile 
not, but settle thy Countenance as though thou didst not hear it. 
19 Boast not in Discourse of thine own Wit or Doings. 
20 Beware thou utter not any Thing hard to be believed. 
21 Interrupt not any one that speaks though thou be his Familiar. 
79 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
22 Coming into Company, whilst any Topick is discoursed on, ask 
not what was the preceding Talk, but hearken to the remainder. 
23 Speaking of any distant Person, it is rude and unmannerly to 
point at him. 
24 Laugh not in, or at thy own Story, Wit or Jest. 
25 Use not any contemptuous or reproachful Language to any 
Person, though very mean or inferiour. 
26 Be not over earnest in talking to justify thine own Sayings. 
27 Let thy Words be modest about those Things which only concern 
thee. 
28 Repeat not over again the Words of a Superiour that asketh thee a 
Question, or talketh with thee. 
80 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
BEHAVIOR at the SCHOOL. 
BOW at coming in pulling off thy Hat ; especially if thy Master or 
Usher he in the School. 
2 Loiter not, but immediately take thine own Seat ; and move not 
from one Place to another, until School Time be over. 
3 If any Stranger come into the School rise up and bow, and sit down 
in thy Place again, keeping a profound Silence. 
4 If thy Master be discoursing in the School with a Stranger, stare not 
confidently on them, nor hearken to their Talk. 
5 Interrupt not thy Master while a Stranger or Visitant is with him, 
with any Question, Request or Complaint ; but defer any such Matter 
until he be at leisure. 
6 At no Time quarrel or talk in the School, but be quiet, peaceable 
and silent. Much less mayest thou deceive thyself, in trifling away 
thy precious Time in Play. 
81 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
7 If thy Master speak to thee, rise up and bow ; making thine Answer 
standing. 
8 Bawl not aloud in making Complaints. A Boy‘s Tongue should 
never be heard in the School but in answering a Question, or saying 
his Lesson. 
9 If a Stranger speak to thee in School, stand up and answer with 
Respect and Ceremony, both of Word and Gesture, as if thou 
speakest to thy Master. 
10 Make not haste out of School, but soberly go when thy Turn 
comes, without Noise or Hurry. 
11 Go not rudely Home through the Streets, stand not talking with 
Boys to delay thee, but go quietly Home, and with all convenient 
Haste. 
12 When it is Time to return to School again, be sure to be there in 
Season, and not loiter at Home whilst thy Master is at School. 
13 Divulge not to any Person whatsoever, elsewhere, any Thing that 
hath passed in the School either spoken or done. 
82 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
BEHAVIOUR when ABROAD. 
GO not Singing, Whistling nor Hollowing along the Steet. 
2 Quarrel not with any Body thou meetest or dost overtake. 
3 Affront none, especially thy Elders, by Word or Deed. 
4 Jeer not at any Person whatsoever. 
5 Always give the Right Hand to your Superiours, when either you 
meet or walk with them ; and mind also to give them the Wall, in 
meeting or walking with them ; for that is the Upper Hand, though 
in walking your Superiour should then be at your Left Hand. But 
when three Persons walk together, the middle Place is the must 
honourable : And a Son may walk at his Fasher‘s Right Hand, when 
his younger Brother walks at his Left. 
6 Give thy Superiours leave to pass before thee in any narrow Place, 
where two Persons cannot pass at once. 
7 If thou go with thy Parents, Master or any Superiour, go not 
wantonly nor even with them ; but a little behind them. 
83 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
8 Pay thy Respects to all thou meetest of thine Acquaintance or 
Friends. 
9 Pull off thine Hat to Persons of Desert, Quality or Office; shew thy 
Reverence to them by bowing thy Body when thou seest them ; and 
if it be a Person of high Station, Governour, Magistate, Justice of the 
Peace, Minister or Deacon, &c. stay thyself until they be passed by 
thee. 
10 If a Superiour speak to thee in the Street, answer him with thy 
Head uncovered ; and put not on thy Hat until he either go from 
thee, or bid thee once and again be covered ; take not Leave at the 
first bidding, but with a Bow [and saying, by no means, Sir] 
modestly refute it. 
11 Run not hastily in the Street, nor go too slowly ; wag not to and 
fro, nor use any antick or wanton Postures, either of thy Head, 
Hands, Feet or Body. 
12 Stare not at every unusual Person or Thing which thou seest. 
13 Throw not any Thing in the Street, as Dirt, Stones, &c. 
14 If thou meetest the Scholars of any other School, jeer not nor 
affront them, but shew them love and respect, and quietly let them 
pass along. 
15 Especially affront not the Master of another School, but rather, if 
thou know-est him, or if he live near either thine House or School, 
uncover thy Head to him, and bowing pass by him. 
84 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
BEHAVIOUR among other CHILDREN. 
AS near as may be converse not with any but those that are good, 
sober and virtuous. Evil Communications corrupt good Manners. 
2 Be not quarrelsome, but rather patiently take, than mischievously 
occasion any Wrong. 
3 Reprove thy Companions as oft as there shall be occasion, for any 
evil, wicked, unlawful or indecent Action or Expression. 
4 Give always Place to him that excelleth thee in Quality, Age or 
Learning. 
5 Be willing to take those Words or Actions as Jesting, which thou 
hast reason to believe were designed as such ; and fret not at thy 
Companions innocent Mirth. 
6 If thy Companion be a little too gross or sarcastical in speaking, yet 
strive not to take notice of it, or be moved at all therewith. 
7 Abuse not thy Companion either by Word or Deed. 
85 
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
8 Deal justly among Boys thy Equals, as solicitously as if thou wert a 
Man with Men, and about Business of higher Importance. 
9 Be not selfish altogether, but kind, free and generous to others. 
10 Jog not the Table or Desk on which another writes. 
11 At play make not thy Clothes, Hands or Face dirty or nasty, nor 
sit upon the Ground. 
12 Avoid sinful and unlawful Recreations, and all such as prejudice 
the Welfare of Body or Mind. 
13 Scorn not, laugh not at any for their natural Infirmities of Body or 
Mind ; nor because of them, affix to any a vexing Title of Contempt 
and Reproach, but pity such as are so visited, and be thankful that 
you are otherwise distinguished and favoured. 
14 Adventure not to talk with thy Companion about thy Superiours, 
to raise Discourse reflecting upon, or touching another‘s Parents or 
Masters ; nor publish any Thing of thine own Family or Houshold 
Affairs. Children must meddle only with the Affairs of Children. 
FINIS 
86 *** ENDD
A Little Pretty Pocket-Book 
Other Books 
BOOKS for the Instruction and Amusement of Children, which will make 
them wise and happy, printed and sold by I. THOMAS, in Worcester, 
Massachusetts, near the Court-House. 
THE BROTHER‘S GIFT ; or the naughty Girl reformed. Published for 
the Advantage of the rising Generation. 
The SISTER‘s GIFT ; or the naughty Boy reformed. 
The FATHER‘s GIFT ; or the Way to be wise and happy. 
The MOTHER‘s GIFT ; or a Present for all little Children who wish to 
be good. 
The FAIRING : Or, a golden-Toy for Children of all Sizes and 
Denominations. 
In which they may see all the Fun of the Fair, And at Home be as 
happy as if they were there. 
The SUGAR-PLUMB ; or Sweet Amusement for Leisure Hours : 
Being an Entertaining and instructive Collection of Stories. 
Embellished with curious Cuts. 
87 